Tuesday 5 January

I had a letter this morning from Nessa, who calls Mrs. Waterlow a German hausfrau, & advises us not to pay a penny — Cleanliness is a fetish not to be worshipped, she says. Certainly, neither of us do worship it; I suppose Mrs. W. ran about with a duster, & dabbed her finger under beds. I can imagine the list of discoveries she gave Sydney, sitting smoking over his philosophy, & how she cursed that dreadful slut Virginia Woolf. At the same time, it is a point of honor among servants to find the house they go into filthy, & to leave it bright as a pin. But enough of Waterlows & their slop pails. We worked as usual: as usual it rained. After lunch we took the air in the Old Deer Park, & marked by a line of straw how high the river had been; & how a great tree had fallen across the towing path, crushing the railing beneath it. Three bodies were seen yesterday swiftly cursing downstream at Teddington. Does the weather prompt suicide? The Times has a queer article upon a railway smash, in which it says that the war has taught us a proper sense of proportion with respect to human life. I have always thought we priced it absurdly high; but I never though the Times would say so. L. went off to Hampstead to give the first of his lectures to the Women's Guild. He did not seem nervous: he is speaking at this moment. We rather think that old Mr. Davies is dying — but I think an idea he'll resist for years to come, although he wants to die, & his life prevents Margaret from much work. I bought my fish & meat in the High Street — a degrading by rather amusing business. I dislike the sight of women shopping. They take it so seriously. Then I got a ticket in the Library, & saw all the shabby clerks & dressmakers thumbing illustrated papers, like very battered bees on very battered flowers. At least they are warm & dry: & it rains again today. The Belgians downstairs are playing cards with some friends, & talk — talk — talk — while their country is destroyed. After all, they have nothing else to do –