Sunday 17 January

The morning was unremarkable — in the afternoon, Herbert came & took L. for a walk. I went to a Queens Hall Concert, stayed for three beautiful tunes, & came back, to find Herbert who stayed on till dinnertime. M(arjorie). S(trachey). came to dinner; changed, somehow, at the first glance. Improved, I thought, though noticeably thinner. She complained of sleeplessness, & in the usual S. way of 'being shattered'; & life being 'too fearful'. But she talked of ordinary things until after dinner she began to harp very markedly on marriage — (I should say that for no reason at all, she said to us ''I've a friend who thinks me rather beautiful, & very stupid''  & half suspecting something odd, I said ''O he's a working man, & you mustn't marry him''. Well, she pressed us more & more with questions about married life, & whether she should marry, & how she wanted to marry; & sometimes I thought she was only talking as so many unmarried people do, & sometimes I suspected there was more. At last one of us (I, perhaps) said ''Well but Marjorie, what d'you want to be?'' ''A married woman'' she answered tragically. ''But is there someone  you  want  to  marry?''  ''Yes!''  ''Does  he  want  to  marry  you?'' ''Yes!!'' — ''Who is he?'' She buried her face in her hands, & then exclaimed ''A married man! Jos Wedgwood!'' We both gasped, in silence. And then we discussed nothing else for an hour or two. It is about the oddest business I ever heard of — this being more or less what has happened. Last summer, Jos left his wife, or she left him, this point being doubtful. Since that, he has lived alone in London, & complained bitterly to Philip Morrell among others of his loneliness. Philip recommended a prostitute. Ottoline thereupon procured Marjorie. They asked her to dinner, & after dinner, Ottoline danced behind the folding doors, & left Marjorie to a tremendous tete a tete with Jos. Although this was their first meeting, he told her his history & his sorrows. Next day he called on Lady Strachey. They met constantly, &, a week or so before Xmas he proposed to her at Lockeridge. By this time she was much in love & accepted him — but what are they to do? She refuses to let him get a Divorce, on the ground that a divorce is ignominious; he, moreover, says that a Divorce would ruin him politically. He is tremendously ambitious. She wishes to live with him as his wife; but this of course means utter political ruin again. To be an ordinary mistress is out of the question for her. Lady Strachey again complicates the question, because she would be horrified at any unconventionality, & cannot be told of it. Then there is the fear of Mrs Wedgwood. If she hears, will she try to get Jos back? Will she succeed? Half of the Stracheys (Lytton among them) advise M. to think no more of it. She is obviously in love; & also quite distracted & worn out. She is going to the South of France; Jos meanwhile is going to the Front. Well ­ what can one make of it all? Seeing M. in love, & her love returned, I felt that the only course was the extreme one; but when I reflected, particularly upon the way in which the thing has happened, the shortness of it, & Ottoline's manoeuvres, I had doubts — about Jos, mostly. Isn't it a case of Sydney Waterlow over again? Will his feeling last, even if hers does? He was married for 20 years to Ethel, & they have 7 children. Leonard is pessimistic, & right, I expect. He thinks that M. is going the worst way for her own prospects, & points out the horror of her position as a mistress, without any tie upon a man who admittedly cares more for his career than anything, & has been supplied with her to gratify wants which may quickly pass— But for some time now they will be apart, & so things may settle themselves. For her, I feel it is the great affair of her life, one way or the other. This morning, obeying a nocturnal command, I wrote to Thomas Hardy! thanking him for his poem about Father, & his works!