Sunday 10 January

I was sitting typewriting this morning when there carne a tap at the door; & someone whom I thought at first was Adrian, appeared: it was Walter Lamb however, fresh from the King. Whenever he has seen the King he comes to tell us. He insisted that we should go for a walk with him in Richmond Park. What did we talk about? We forgot about the King, & Walter told us a long inexpressibly dreary story which Professor Houseman had told him, about the inefficiency of the French soldiers. Whatever Walter says, has the same flat, smooth, grey surface; & his voice alone would dull the fieriest poesy in the world. Nor does he deal in fiery poems. His life now lies among respectable, semi—smart, rich people, whom he half despises, so that his accounts are always a little condescending. The one passion of his life is for eighteenth century building. All the time this morning he was bidding us admire a moulding or a window frame or even a 'fan light'. He 'sees over' any house that is to let, apparently, & notices the internal decorations. He knows who now lives in big houses, & who once lived in them. He is perfectly suited by Kew, & the Royal Academy, & the Royal Family. On our doorstep he burst at length into an account of the last Royal visit, when the King, who now treats him as a friend (or rather, as Leonard says, like a superior footman) suddenly stopped admiring the pictures, & asked Princess Victoria where she gets her false teeth. ''Mine, George exclaimed, are always dropping into my plate: they'll be down my throat next. My man is a rascal. I'm going to leave him.'' Victoria then gave a tug to her front teeth, & told him that they were as sound as could be — perfectly white & useful— The King then went back to the pictures. His style of talk reminds me of George 3rd in Fanny Burney's diary & so one must bless Walter for something— He refused to lunch with us, saying that he had lived on pheasants all the week, & rhubarb was forbidden him, on account of his acidity. It rains hard, all the afternoon, & now Marjorie Strachey who was to dine with us, cant come because of a cold. I heard last night from Mr Chubb that old Spence wont let any part of Brunswick Square—