Wednesday 6 January

The Waterlows again: Lily again. Mrs W. writes to Leonard this time, about the oven, & ends by being very much distressed to think we are annoyed — seeing how delightful they find Asheham. It is a queer thing that both the ladies in this correspondence write to both the gentlemen — feeling instinctively, I believe, that if they wrote to each other, the whole affair would become much more acid. Lily's letter continues the story of the hidden soldier. It brings her very clearly before me, with her charming, stupid, doglike eyes, quite incapable of hurting a fly or thinking a coarse thought, & yet bound eternally to suffer for the sins of stronger characters. In this case, she was at the mercy of a parlourmaid, who invited the soldiers, & Lily had neither the strength of mind to be rude to them when they came, nor to 'tell tales of a fellow servant'. 'I would rather do anything than that' — & that, I imagine, was how she had her baby too. Anyhow, I have 'spoken' for her again, & she has promised to have no more to do with soldiers. L. went off at 10 a.m. to give his second lecture at Hampstead. The first was a great success, as I knew it would be. He finds the women much more intelligent than the men; in some ways too intelligent, & apt on that account, not to see the real point. He has another to give this afternoon, so he is staying up at Hampstead, lunching with Lilian, & perhaps seeing Janet. No one except a very modest person would treat these working women, & Lilian & Janet & Margaret, as he does. Clive, or indeed any other clever young man, would give himself airs; & however much he admired them pretend that he didn't.

I wrote all the morning, with infinite pleasure, which is queer, because I know all the time that there is no reason to be pleased with what I write, & that in 6 weeks or even days, I shall hate it. Then I went to London, & asked at Grays Inn about Chambers. They had a set vacant; & I at once envisaged all sorts of charms, & let myself into them with a thrill of excitement. But they would be perfect for one, & impossible for two. There are 2 perfect rooms, looking over the gardens; & that is about all. Grays Inn Road thunders behind one. Next I saw a flat in Bedford Row, which promised divinely, but on asking at the agents, was told they had just been instructed to let it furnished only — And now, of course, I am convinced that there is no flat in London to equal it! I could wander about the dusky streets in Holborn & Bloomsbury for hours. The things one sees ­ & guesses at — the tumult & riot & busyness of it all — Crowded streets are the only places, too, that ever make me what—in—the—case of another­one—might—call think. Now I have to decide whether I shall go up again, to a party at Gordon Sqre, where the Aranyis are playing. On the one hand, I shirk the dressing & the journey; on the other I know that with the first chink of light in the hall & chatter of voices I should become intoxicated, & determine that life held nothing comparable to a party. I should see beautiful people, & get a sensation of being on the highest crest of the biggest wave — right in the centre & swim of things. On the third & final hand, the evenings reading by the fire here — reading Michelet & The Idiot, & smoking & talking to L. in what stands for slippers & dressing gown — are heavenly too. And as he won't urge me to go, I know very well that I shant. Besides, there is vanity: I have no clothes to go in.